A Beginners Guide to Autechre

Since their signing with Warp Records in 1992, the electronic band Autehcre, formed by Rob Brown and Sean Booth, have kept busy producing what can only be described as the most forward-pushing discography in electronic music. The duo's tracks have their roots in rave and club culture sprinkled in their DNA, but over the years it has developed into a new mind and ear bending complexity of sound design, rhythm and composition.

Autechre is known by electronic music fans as a strange phenomenon, Techno and Alt-Rock folks might know them only by name or by being name dropped as inspiration by their favorite artists like Radiohead, Flying Lotus, James Blake and Björk. What fans and artists alike hear in Ae's music is their passion for sound design and an out of this world experience. Rob and Sean are meticulous with placing every kick and snare hit just where it belongs and paradoxically at the same time they completely embrace computer generated randomness and jazz-like improvisation.

The duo is not afraid to find rhythm in the strangest of places, with the most unusual sounds. Even on early albums like Tri Repetae sound like they take place on a distant future where and abandoned factory shows early signs of life with the almost heart-like beating of every gear, roaring of motors and the ratcheting of every screw trying to break apart. Clanking it's way through a club set only to find out the future ahead, where the mechanically alive sounds of their early work shift into digital flourish. Where their tracks, like a newborn animal, stands on it's legs since birth and quickly develops a new path for itself.

The 2000's marked the beginning of Autechre embrace of digital assistance in their composition and performance. Their pieces became less repetitive but without loosing the groove or their identity.  

NUMBER, TRACK NAME, ALBUM, YEAR

CHAPTER ONE - RAVE AND CLUB SONGS

This beginner's guide tempts to show the band's evolution to show their dance focused beginnings and to provide for an easy listening for a newcomer. The lads had just gotten signed to Warp Records in 1992 and the record company became so blown away by their demos that they realized none of other musical catalog matched the music from Autechre. Warp 

1. Eggshell, Incunabula, 1993
2. Garbagemx, Garbage, 1995
3. Bike, Eggshell, Incunabula, 1993
4. Clipper, Tri Repetae, 1995
5. Cipater, Chiastic Slide, 1997
6. Flutter, Anti, 1994

CHAPTER TWO - MOVING FROM ANALOG

7. Pen Expers, Confield, 2001
8. Rae, LP5, 1998
9. LCC, Untilted, 2005
10. jatevee C, Exai, 2013

CHAPTER THREE - CHNAGING THE RULES

11. north spiral, NTS Session 1, 2018
12. 